## What Is S3 Versioning
S3 versioning will allow you to keep multiple variants (versions) of an object (file) in the same bucket. You can also use versioning to preserve, retrieve, and restore different versions of your bucket.

## Enable S3 Versioning
To enable versioning for an S3 bucket we will need to do the following:

1. Navigate to the S3 service which is located under the Storage section.
1. Select the bucket which you would like to enable versioning.
1. From the S3 bucket, dashboard navigate to the "Properties" tab section.
    - From the properties tab, there will be a section called "Bucket Versioning". We will need to click on the edit button. From there you will select the "Enable" option and save changes to enable versioning on an S3 bucket. Note that once versioning is enabled you cannot delete versioning but only suspend it.

## Viewing All Object Versions
When S3 versioning is enabled you will now have the ability to view all the different versions of an object. To view the the different versions of an object you will need to do the following:

1. Navigating back to the main S3 bucket dashboard there will now be a slider called "List Versions" found under the "Objects" section. 
    - This slider when selected will allow you to see all the versions of an object.
    - Any time you upload an object with the same name the previous will be part of the list. 
    - Additionally, all new versions of an object will contain their unique version I.D and when it was uploaded. The version that has an i.d of null is the first time that file was uploaded.

## Rolling Back A Object Version
To rollback an object version do the following:
1. From the main S3 bucket dashboard enable the "List Version" slider.
1. Select the object that you would like to roll back.
1. Once selected hit the Delete button.
    - Confirm that this the is object version you would like to delete and save the change.
    - If successfully deleted you should see a success message confirming that it was done correctly.
1. Under the main S3 bucket dashboard you should see the active version of the object is now rolled back to the previous one.

## Exam Tips
1. Stores All Versions Of An Object.
    - Including all writes and even if you delete an object.
1. Great Backup Tool.
1. Versioning Cannot Be Disabled.
    - Once enabled, versioning cannot be disabled - only suspended.
1. Integrates With Lifecycle Rules.
1. Versioning's MFA Delete Capability.
    - Uses multi-factor authentication; can be used to provide an additional layer of security.
