## What Is CloudFront?

CloudFront is Amazon's content delivery network (CDN). A CDN is a system of distributed servers (network) that deliver webpages and other web content to a user based on the geographical locations of the user, the origin of the webpage, and a content delivery server.

CloudFront can be used to deliver entire websites including dynamic, static, streaming, and interactive content by using a global network of edge locations. Requests for the content are automatically routed to the nearest edge location to deliver the best performance.

## CloudFront Key Terminology
- **Edge Location** - This is the location where the content will be cached. This is separate from an AWS Region / Availability Zone.
- **Origin** - This is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. This can be an S3 bucket, an EC2 Instance, an Elastic Load Balancer, or Route53.
- **Distribution** - This is the name given to the CDN which consists of a collection of Edge locations. There are two main types of distributions:
    - Web Distribution - Typically used for websites.
    - RTMP - Used for media streaming. (Not commonly used anymore)

## How Does CloudFront Work?
To explain it in more simple terms let's see how the internet works without a CDN. Say that we have a video file that has a size of 1 - 2 gigs. It is sitting in a file server located in London England. Due to the video popularity, we have users from all over the world wanting to view the video. Users are located in North America, South America, Africa, Australia, etc. Without a CDN the users will have to connect to London where the file server with the video is and pull that video. Since the video file is large it will take a lot of time. Factors include where the user is located and their internet connection speeds.

To speed things up we can use a CDN. In our example, the origin will be the London file server that contains the video file. We would then turn on CloudFront. Once turned on the following would happen:

1. Our users from all over the world that want this video will first query their respective Edge Location to see if the video file has been already cached in that Edge Location. 
1. If the edge location does not have the video file since it has never been requested before the edge location will connect to the origin, download it, and stream it to the user. 
1. Once downloaded the edge location will now cache (contain) that video file. If another user queries for that same video file they will download it from the edge location and not from the origin. For example, North American users will download the video file from the North American edge location and not from London. Because the edge location is closer to the user the download speed should be improved.

The file is cached in an edge location for a length of time that is specified by a time to live (TTL). TTLs are given in seconds and usually have a default time frame of about 24 hours (86400 seconds). If the minimum TTL is set to more than 86400 seconds the default TTL would be updated to the value of the minimum TTL.

## How To Turn On CloudFront?

If you would like to enable and use AWS CloudFront do the following:

1. Log into your AWS Console and navigate to the CloudFront Service which is located under the Networking & Content Delivery label.
1. Once you select the CloudFront service you will be presented with an Amazon CloudFront Getting Started page. This happens if you are enabling CloudFront for the 1st time. 
1. Click on the "Create Distribution" button.
    1. Select which content distribution you would like (Web or RTMP). In our case, we will use web distribution since it is the most popular out of the two.
    1. We will need to specify the origin domain name. In our case, we will use the S3 bucket that was previously created for a static website.
    1. For Origin Path, we can specify specific folders in our S3 bucket as our origin. In our case, we want to use the entire S3 bucket so it will be left blank.
    1. We can also restrict bucket access. What this option does if enabled is that it limits access to the bucket files only via CloudFront. Users will not have the ability to go download it directly from S3
    1. You will also have the ability to change the TTL parameter from the default 24 hours.
    1. Everything else will be left as default
    1. Once completed click the "Create Distribution" button on the bottom of the page.
1. Once the distribution has been created the CloudFront service dashboard will:
    1. Display that distribution you have just created with the domain name for the distribution. 
    1. Additionally, although we have just created it there is a delay in terms of it being deployed. This could take between 30 mins to 1 hour. On the main dashboard, there will be a status column indicating if the deployment has been completed or still in progress.
1. Once the distribution has been successfully deployed it will start caching the files in the edge locations and improve the performance

## Delete A Distribution
To delete a specific distribution do the following:
1. Log into your AWS Console and navigate to the CloudFront Service which is located under the Networking & Content Delivery label.
1. On the main CloudFront dashboard select the specific distribution you would like to delete.
1. You will need to 1st disable it by hitting the Disable button. This could take 15 minutes to complete. 
1. Once disabled select the specific distribution and hit the Delete button.

## Exam Tips
1. Edge Location - This is the location where the content will be cached. This is separate from an AWS Region / Availability Zone.
1. Origin - This is the origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. This can be an S3 bucket, an EC2 Instance, an Elastic Load Balancer, or Route53.
1. Distribution - This is the name given to the CDN which consists of a collection of Edge locations. There are two main types of distributions:
    1. Web Distribution - Typically used for websites.
    1. RTMP - Used for media streaming. (Not commonly used anymore)
1. Edge locations are not just READ only. We can write to them too. (ie put an object on to them).
1. Objects are cached for the life of the TTL (Time To Live).
1. You can clear cached objects but will incur a charge for doing so.
