## What is EC2?
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) is just a virtual server (or servers) in the cloud.

EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

In a data center, there will be hundreds of data halls filled with endless racks of servers. Before AWS and the public cloud if you wanted to have a couple of servers you would have to contact a managed service provider and place an order. The provider would then go out and order the necessary parts, rack/stack the servers, and set them up so they are online. This would usually require you to sign a long-term contract (3-5 years). Additionally, set up times could range from a couple of weeks to even months.

With Amazon EC2 you could avoid all that by just signing into the console and get a virtual machine up and running in minutes if not seconds.

## EC2 Pricing Models

1. On-Demand: This model allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
1. Reserved: This model provides you a capacity reservation, and offers a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. Contract Terms are 1 Year or 3 Year. The more you pay upfront and the longer the contract the larger the discount is. Reserved also has a few pricing types:
    - Standard reserved instanced: These offer up to 75% off on-demand instances. The most you pay up-front and the longer the contract, the greater the discount
    - Convertible reserved instances: These offer up to 54% off on-demand capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of Reserved Instances of equal or greater value
    - Scheduled Reserved Instances: These are available to launch within the time windows you reserve. This option allows you to match the capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week, or a month.
1. Spot: This model allows you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if the applications have flexible start and end times.
1. Dedicated Hosts: This method allows you to use physical EC2 servers for your use. This can help reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.

## Use Cases For Different Pricing Models

1. On-demand pricing is useful for:
    - Users that want the low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any up-front payment or long-term commitment.
    - Applications with short-term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
    - Applications being developed or tested on EC2 for the first time.

1. Reserved pricing is useful for:
Applications with steady-state or predictable usage.
Applications that require reserved capacity.
Users that want to reduce their costs by paying upfront on a long-term contract to receive a discount.
Spot pricing is useful for:
Applications that have flexible start and end times.
Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices.
Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity.
Dedicated hosts pricing is useful for:
Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.
Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
Can be purchases On-Demand (hourly.)
Can be purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off the On-Demand price.
## EC2 Instance Type Mnemonic

FIGHT DR MCPXZ AU

F - FPGA
I - IOPS
G - Graphics
H - High Disk Throughput
T - Cheap general purpose
D - Density
R - Ram
M - Main choice for general-purpose apps
C - Compute
P - Graphics
X - Extreme Memory
Z - Extreme Memory and CPU
A-Arm - Based Workloads
U - Bare Metal

## What Is EBS?

Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) allows you to create storage volumes and attach them to Amazon EC2 instances. Once attached, you can create a file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a block device. Amazon EBS volumes are placed in a specific Availability Zone, where they are automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component.

Think of EBS as a virtual disk in the cloud. It comes in two different types:

1. Solid-State Drive (SSD)
    1. General Purpose SSD (GP2) - balances price and performance for a wide variety of workloads.
    1. Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1) - Highest-performance SSD volume for mission-critical low-latency or high-throughput workloads.
1. Magnetic
    1. Throughput Optimized HHD (ST1) - Low-cost HDD volume designed for frequently access, throughput-intensive workloads.
    1. Cold HHD (SC1) - Lowest cost HDD volume designed for less frequently accessed workloads (File Servers).
    1. Magnetic - Previous Generation

## Exam Tips

1. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as the computing requirements change.
1. EC2 comes in 4 pricing models
    - On-Demand: This model allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.
    - Reserved: This model provides you a capacity reservation, and offers a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. Contract Terms are 1 Year or 3 Year. The more you pay upfront and the longer the contract the larger the discount is. Reserved also has a few pricing types:
    - Spot: This model allows you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if the applications have flexible start and end times.
    - Dedicated Hosts: This method allows you to use physical EC2 servers for your use. This can help reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.
1. If the Spot Instance is terminated by Amazon EC2, you will not be charged for a partial hour of usage. However, if you terminate the instance yourself, you will be charged for any hour in which the instance ran.
1. Amazon EBS Types
    - General Purpose SSD (GP2) - balances price and performance for a wide variety of workloads.
    - Provisioned IOPS SSD (IO1) - Highest-performance SSD volume for mission-critical low-latency or high-throughput workloads.
    - Throughput Optimized HHD (ST1) - Low-cost HDD volume designed for frequently access, throughput-intensive workloads.
    - Cold HHD (SC1) - Lowest cost HDD volume designed for less frequently accessed workloads (File Servers).
    - Magnetic - Previous Generation




