# What Is Cloud Computing?
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of computing, database storage, application, and other IT resources through a cloud services platform via the internet with pay as you go pricing,

**Think of it as simply renting someone else's computer.**

# The 6 Advantages Of Cloud Computing
1. **Trade Captial Expense For Variable Expense:** Instead of having to invest resources and funding in data centers and servers without knowing how I am going to use them, I can pay when I am only using the computing resources and how much am I consuming.
1. **Benefit From Massive Economies Of Scale:** I will never have the same purchasing power as Amazon. They build their servers, data centers, networking gear, etc. Additionally, due to their purchasing power, they can pass down the cost savings to me. 
1. **Stop Guessing About Capacity:** When it comes to computing power I will probably either buy too much or too little. When buying too much I will waste money and too little means downtime. However, with the cloud, it can scale with the business needs with no long-term contracts.
1. **Increase In Speed & Agility:** Using the cloud allows me to get up and running very quickly. I don't have to spend time buying servers and renting data center space. Instead, I can use the cloud and scale on demand.
1. **Stop Spending Money Running & Maintaining Data Centers:** By using the cloud I can focus on what I know/am good at and not on managing infrastructure. I let someone else manage it for me.
1. **Go Global In Minutes:** With the cloud, I can easily deploy the application in multiple regions around the world in minutes. This allows for a better user experience due to lower latency at a minimal cost.

# Cloud Computing Types

There are 3 main types of cloud computing

1. **Infrastrucure As A Service (IAAS):** I manage the server which can be physical or virtual and the operating system. Usually, the data center provider will have no access to my server
1. **Platform As A Service (PAAS):** Someone else manages the underlying hardware and operating system. I just focus on the applications. The 3rd party would manage the security, patching, updates, and maintenance, etc. 
1. **Software As A Service (SAAS):** All I worry about is the software and how I want to use it

# 3 Types Of Cloud Computing Deployments
1. **Public Cloud -** AWS, Azure, GCP
1. **Hybrid -** Mixture of public and private
1. **Private Cloud (Or On-Premise) -** I manage it, in my datacenter. OpenStack or VMware

# Exam Tips

- 6 advantages of cloud
  - Trade capital expense for variable expense
  - Benefit from massive economies of scale
  - Stop guessing about capacity
  - Go global in minutes
  - Increase speed and agility
  - Stop spending time and money running data centers/infrastructure

- 3 Types Of Cloud Computing
  - Infrastructure As A Service
  - Platform As A Service
  - Software As A Service

- 3 Type Of Cloud Deployments
  - Public Cloud - AWS, GCP, Azure
  - Private (Or On-Premise)-  I manage it, in my data center
  - Hybrid - Mixture of public and private
