# AWS Global Cloud Infrastructure

AWS Global Cloud Infrastructure is the most secure, extensive, and reliable cloud platform, offering over 200 fully-featured services from data centers globally.  Currently, there are 24 regions and 72 availability zones.

**Availability Zone:** When thinking about an availability zone things of it as a data center. A data center is just a building filled with servers. An availability zone may be several data centers but because they are so close to each other they are counted as 1 Availability Zone.

**Region:** A region is a geographical area that consists of 2 (or more) Availability Zones.

**Edge Locations:** An edge location is an endpoint for AWS which is used for caching content. For example, if I am based in London and I am trying to download a large S3 bucket in New York the 1st time I download the file it will be from New York. However, if I re-download it or someone else downloads it after the initial request it will be from an edge point making it faster. There are more edge locations than availability zones.

# Exam Tips

- A region is a physical location in the world that consists of 2 or more availability zones.

- Availability Zone (AZ) is one or more discrete data centers each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity.

- Edge location is endpoints for AWS which are used for caching content.

- When choosing the right AWS region there are 3 things to keep in mind.
  -   **AWS Services:** Not all regions offer all services. So make sure the region that you are selecting offers the services you need.
  -   **Latency To End Users:** End-user latency might come into play as well. You would need to select a region where the bulk of your end users are to improve latency performance.
  -   **Data Sovereignty Laws:** Data Laws can also impact which region you select. Depending on your location and the applicable laws you might be required to select a specific region to stay compliant.
