# Support Plans

AWS offers 4 different support plans. These support plans are designed to give you the right mix of tools and access to expertise so that the user can be successful with AWS while optimizing performance, managing risk, and keeping costs under control.

The support plans are as follows:

1. **Basic**
  - Description: Customer service for account and billing questions and access to the AWS Community Forums.
  - Price: Free

2. **Developer**
  - User Case: Experimenting with AWS
  - Description: 1 primary contact may ask technical questions through Support Center and get a response within 12-24 hours during local business hours
  - Price: Starts at $29/ per month. (Scales based on usage)

3. **Business**
  - User Case: Production use of AWS
  - Description: 24/7 support by phone and chat. 1-hour response to urgent support cases, and help with common third-party software. Full access to AWS Trusted Advisor for optimizing the AWS infrastructure and access to the AWS support API for automating support cases and retrieving results.
  - Price: Starts at $100/ per month. (Scales based on usage)

4. **Enterprise**
  - User Case: Mission-critical use of AWS
  - Description:** All the features of the Business support plan, plus an assigned Technical Account Manager (TAM) who provides proactive guidance and best practices to help plan, develop, and run the AWS solutions. Additionally, you get a Support Concierge who provides billing and account analysis and assistance, access to Infrastructure Event Management to support product launches, season promotions/events, and migrations, and 15 - minute response to critical support cases with prioritized case handling
  - Price: Starts at $15,000/ per month. (Scales based on usage)

# Exam Tips
- Understand the different support packages
  - Basic - Free
  - Developer - $29/per month (scales based on usage), 12-24 hour response time
  - Business - $100/per month (scales based on usage), 1 hour response time
  - Enterprise - $15,000/per month (scales based on usage), you also get a Technical Account Manager , 15 minute response time
