# Identity Access Management

## Overview

**AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) enables you to manage access to AWS services and resources securely.** Using IAM, you can create and manage AWS users and groups, and use permissions to allow and deny their access to AWS resources.  IAM is a feature of your AWS account offered at no additional charge. You will be charged only for use of other AWS services by your users.

## Key Features Of IAM
1. **Centralized control** of my AWS account
1. **Shared access** to my AWS account
1. **Granular permissions**
1. Multi-factor **authentication**
1. Ability to **provide temporary access** for users, devices, and services where necessary
1. A customized **password rotation policy**
1. **Integration** with many different AWS services

## Key Terminology For IAM
**Users**
: End-users such as people, employees of an organization

**Group**
: A collection of users. Each user in a group will inherit the permissions of the group

**Role**
: You create **roles** and then assign them to AWS resources.  A role does in essence is give permissions to another Aws service to almost act as a user. 

**Policies**
: Policies are made up of documents which are called **policy documents**. These documents are formatted in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) and provide the specific permissions for users, groups, and roles.

## Exam Tips
1. IAM stands for Identity and Access Management.

1. IAM is global. No need to specify a region when dealing with IAM. When creating a user or a group it is created **globally**.

1. IAM is accessible in 3 ways: **Via console** or programmatically **(via command line)** or using a **software development kit (SDK)**.

1. The **root account** is the email address used to set up the AWS account. **The root account always has full admin access.** Never give/share root account credentials to anyone. Instead, create a user for each person in a company. Always secure the root account with **multi-factor**.

1. A **group** is simply a place to **store your users**. **The users will inherit all permissions the group has.**

1. To set up the permissions in a **group** I will need to **apply a policy** to that group. **Policies are made with JSON.** These are referred to as **key-value pairs**. Example: {“name”: “Mike”}
