# Overview

S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable object storage. It is easy to use, with a simple web services interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

**S3 is a place to put your flat files such as text, pictures, video files. A flat file is a file that doesn't change.**

# So What Is S3?
S3 is a safe place to store your files. It is object-based storage. Object-based storage is where you store files while block-based storage is where you would install an operating system or database.
The data is spread across multiple devices and facilities.

# Basics Of S3
- S3 is **object-based** - i.e allows you to upload files
- Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB
- There is unlimited storage
- Files are stored in Buckets (buckets are like folders in the cloud)
- **S3 is a universal namespace.** That is, names must be unique globally.
- Whenever you upload a file to S3 if the upload was successful you will receive an **HTTP 200 code**

# S3 Objects
S3 is Object-based. **Think of Objects just as files.** Objects consist of the following:
- Key (The name of the object)
- Value(This is simply the data and is made up of a sequence of bytes).
- Version ID (Important for versioning)
- Metadata (Data about data you are storing)
- Subresources:
  - Access Control Lists
  - Torrent

# How does data consistency work for S3?
- Read after write consistency for PUTS of new objects
  - In other words, if you write a new file and read it immediately afterward, you will be able to view that data.
- Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)
  - If you update **AN EXISTING file or delete a file** and read it immediately, you may get the older version, or you may not. Changes to objects can take a little bit of time to propagate.

# S3 Guarantees
S3 has the following guarantees from Amazon:
- Built for 99.99% availability for the S3 platform
- Amazon Guarantee 99.99% availability
- Amazon guarantees 99.999999999% durability for S3 information. 

# S3 Features
S3 has the following features;
- Tiered storage available
- Lifecycle management
- Versioning
- Encryption
- Secure the data using **Access Control Lists** and **Bucket Policies** 

# S3 Storage Classes
1. **S3 Standard:** 99.99% availability and 99.999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.
2. **S3 IA (Infrequently Accessed):** For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee.
3. **S3 One Zone IA:** For where you want a lower-cost option for infrequently accessed data, but do not require the multiple Availability Zone resilience.
4. **S3 Intelligence Tiering:** Designed to optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective access tier, without performance impact or operational overhead.
5. **S3 Glacier:** S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and low-cost storage class for data archiving. You can reliably store any amount of data at costs that are competitive with or cheaper than on-premises solutions. Retrieval times are configurable from minutes to hours.
6. **S3 Glacier Deep Archive:** S3 Glacier Deep Archive is Amazon S3's lowest-cost storage class where a retrieval time of 12 hours is acceptable.
7. **S3 Outposts:** Storage class to deliver object storage to on-premises AWS Outpost environments.

# S3 Billing
You are charged for S3 in the following ways:
- Storage
- Requests
- Storage Management Pricing
- Data Transfer Pricing
- Transfer Acceleration
  - This enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over a long distance between your end-users and an S3 bucket. You take advantage of Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations. As data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.
- Cross-Region Replication Pricing
  - Allows you to have two buckets primary and secondary. Every time someone uploads a file to your primary bucket it will be replicated to the secondary one as well.
 
# Exam Tips
- S3 is Object-based: i.e allows you to upload files
- The size of the file can range from 0 Bytes to 5TB
- There is unlimited storage
- Files are stored in Buckets (buckets are folder in the cloud)
- S3 is a universal namespace. Names must be unique globally.
  - The S3 URL will have the following structure, https:s3-region_name.amazonaws.com/bucketname
- **S3 is not suitable to install an operating system on**
- Succesful uploads to S3 will generate an HTTP 200 status code
- **Key Fundamentals of S3:**
  - Key (Name of the object)
  - Value (the data of the object)
- Read after write consistency for PUTS of new objects
- Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)
- **S3 Storage Classes**
  - S3 Standard: 99.99% availability and 99.999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.
  - S3 IA (Infrequently Accessed): For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee.
  - S3 One Zone IA: For where you want a lower-cost option for infrequently accessed data, but do not require the multiple Availability Zone resilience.
  - S3 Intelligence Tiering: Designed to optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective access tier, without performance impact or operational overhead.
  - S3 Glacier: S3 Glacier is a secure, durable, and low-cost storage class for data archiving. You can reliably store any amount of data at costs that are competitive with or cheaper than on-premises solutions. Retrieval times are configurable from minutes to hours.
  - S3 Glacier Deep Archive: S3 Glacier Deep Archive is Amazon S3's lowest-cost storage class where a retrieval time of 12 hours is acceptable.
  - S3 Outposts: Storage class to deliver object storage to on-premises AWS Outpost environments



