## Creating An S3 Bucket

1. Navigate to the Storage Section in AWS services and find the S3 service.
1. Click Create Bucket:
    1. Name & Region Information
    2. Bucket Name: Enter the name for your S3 bucket. It has to be DNS compliant or in other words a valid web address. For example, cannot have an exclamation mark, it has to start with a lower case letter, it has to be between 3 and 63 characters long. 
    3. Region: Select a specific region where your S3 bucket will exist.
    4. Copy Settings: Optional feature where you can copy settings from an already existing bucket
1. Configure Options
    1. After hitting next on name and region information you are presented with configurable options. This is covered in more detail for the solutions architect associate exam.
1. Set Permissions
    1. Block Public Access: When enabled it blocks our bucket from being made public and that it remains always private.
1. Review
    1. Before actually creating the bucket a summary of the bucket and its details for a final review

## Uploading A File To A S3 Bucket
Once the bucket has been created it will appear on the S3 service dashboard. Clicking on the specific bucket name will open up that specific bucket dashboard. 

From here you can click on the Upload button to upload a file to S3. When you initially upload a file to an S3 bucket it will be private. Trying to view it will result in an error message saying access denied. 

To make a file in an S3 bucket public you will need to do the following:
1. Go to the specific bucket where the file has been uploaded and select it
2. Once the file(s) has been selected click on the Actions button drop-down menu and select the "Make Public" option and confirm that you want to make the file(s) public. At that point, the files will be public and you can view them without the error message.

## Changing A S3 Bucket Properties
To change an S3 bucket property do the following:
1. Click on the specific bucket you want to edit the properties for
2. Click on the "Properties" tab 
3. Edit which type of property you would like to edit 

## Change Bucket Permissions
1. To change S3 bucket permissions do the following:
2. Click on the specific bucket you want to edit the permissions
3. Click on the "Permissions" tab
4. Edit the permissions

## Manage An S3 Bucket
To manage an S3 bucket and its options (data life-cycle, replication, analytics, metrics, inventory) do the following:
1. Click on the specific bucket you want to manage
2. Click on the "Management" tab
3. Edit the bucket options

## Editing An S3 File Individually
To edit a specific S3 file you will need to do the following:
1. Click on the specific bucket where the file you want to edit exists
2. From the overview page click on the specific file and select the file properties. From here you can select what to edit for the file. Options include:
    1. Changing the storage class of the file
    2. Encryption of the file
    3. Assign metadata to the file
    4. Assign tags to the file
    5. Object locks or in other words prevent the file from being deleted

## Enable Transfer Acceleration
To enable transfer acceleration for a bucket do the following:
1. Go to the specific bucket that you want to enable it for
2. Go to the Properties menu and scroll down to Transfer Acceleration. 
3. Select the enabled option to enable it. 
    - If you want to compare the speeds of the direct upload vs accelerated transfer click the compare hyperlink. This will bring up a webpage that shows you a comparison of uploading it directly vs acceleration and the difference in speed for different regions.

## Exam Tips
1. Bucket names share a common name space. **You cannot have the same bucket name as someone else.**
2. When you view buckets you view them globally but you can have buckets in individual regions.
3. You can replicate the contents of one bucket to another bucket automatically by using the cross region replication feature.
4. You can change storage classes and the encryption of your objects (files) on the fly.
5. Storage classes:
    - S3 Standard
    - S3 IA (Infrequent Access)
    - S3 One Zone IA
    - S3 Intelligent Tiering
    - S3 Glacier
    - S3 Glacier Deep Archive
6. 3 Ways To Restrict Bucket Access:
    -   Bucket Policies - Applies across the whole S3 bucket
    -   Object Policies - Applies to individaul files
    -   IAM Policies to Users & Groups - Applies to Users & Groups
